Add doc for CA2260 (#31632)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2260.md

---

> title: "CA2260: Implement Generic Math Interfaces Correctly"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "CA2260: Implement generic math interfaces correctly"
```

> description: "Generic math interfaces require the derived type itself to be used for the self recurring type parameter"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2260 - Generic math interfaces require the derived type itself to be used for the self recurring type parameter."
```

ms.date: 10/06/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- CA2260
- ImplementGenericMathInterfacesCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- ImplementGenericMathInterfacesCorrectly
- CA2260
author: buyaa-n
---

> # CA2260: Implement Generic Math Interfaces Correctly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# CA2260: Implement generic math interfaces correctly
```

|                                     | Value                                |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2260                               |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)           |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                         |

## Cause

> When not passing the type itself as a type parameter when implementing a generic math interface that requires self recurring type parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule fires when you implement a generic math interface that requires a self-recurring type parameter and you don't pass the type itself as the type parameter.
```

## Rule description

> Some generic math interfaces introduce static abstract members, the only way to access those static members is through a generic constraint, the generic constraints implements Curiously Recurring Template Pattern (CRTP), therefore require the derived type itself to be used for the self recurring type parameter. If a type implements such interface without passing required type parameter and CA2260 is ignored the code would compile successfully but the static abstract will not me accessible therefore the type will not be usable, compiler would warn with CS0315 on such usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some generic math interfaces introduce static abstract members. The only way to access those static members is through a generic constraint that implements the "curiously recurring template pattern" (CRTP). Therefore, the derived type itself must be used for the self-recurring type parameter. If a type implements such an interface without passing the required type parameter and CA2260 is ignored, the code will compile successfully but the static abstract will not be accessible. Thus, the type will not be usable. The compiler emits a warning with ID CS0315 on such usage.
```

## How to fix violations

Pass correct type parameter for self recurring type parameter (TSelf) when implementing those interfaces.

### Example

**Violation**:

```csharp
using System;

// Warns: The 'IParsable<TSelf>' requires the 'TSelf' type parameter to be filled with the derived type 'MyDate'
public readonly struct MyDate : IParsable<DateOnly>
{ ... }
```

**Fix**:

> Pass the `MyDate` type as type parameter for the `IParsable<TSelf>` interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass the `MyDate` type as the type parameter for the `IParsable<TSelf>` interface.
```

> If your array's elements are larger than one byte in size, you can multiply the length of the array by the element size to get the number of bytes.

Reviewer: ??

Author: Left over from copy paste 😛 
```suggestion
Pass the `MyDate` type as type parameter for the `IParsable<TSelf>` interface
```
